

For the fruit storage industry, it is best to use two types of nitrogen generators. Membrane generator or PSA Oxygen Generators (pressure swing adsorption). The units you choose will always depend on your specific needs, but if you are not sure which generator is best for your company, the knowledgeable nitrogen generator supplier will be able to assess your nitrogen needs.

The membrane generator is best suited for on-site low-flow applications with a purity of 99.5% or less. These generators have a simple manual process control, very quiet and less maintenance. Another additional advantage of the membrane generator industry for the fruit storage industry is the availability of a premium air pretreatment filtration system. Fruit storage depends on the very controlled environment, allowing the maturation process to slow down until the product is ready to be removed from the controlled atmosphere storage room. This makes the film generator a very low cost and reliable source of nitrogen injection into the room.

The pressure swing adsorption generator produces nitrogen gas differently through carbon molecular sieves and is most suitable for applications where the purity should be 99.5% or higher. The compressed air flows through the sieve, where oxygen and any other trace gases are absorbed by the generator. After the preset time, all contaminants absorbed by the generator are discharged from the equipment. Another benefit of choosing a PSA nitrogen generator for fruit storage companies is that the unit has narrow pores in the tower. Since oxygen molecules tend to be less than nitrogen molecules, oxygen is more likely to be absorbed into the sieve and is separated from nitrogen molecules and can not pass through the screen.

Both membrane and PSA nitrogen generators are ideal for the choice of nitrogen generators in the fruit storage industry, allowing controlled atmosphere storage rooms to operate smoothly, efficiently and most importantly to produce the highest quality products.
